---
layout: post
status: publish
published: publish
title: Accident
author:
  display_name: Misterblue
  login: Misterblue
  email: misterblue-blog@misterblue.com
  url: http://misterblue.com
author_login: Misterblue
author_email: misterblue-blog@misterblue.com
author_url: http://misterblue.com

wordpress_id: 439
wordpress_url: /?p=439
date: 2004-06-12 06:24:50
categories:
- Blog

static-comments:
- id: 194
  author: jill
  author_email: cnjblevins@earthlink.net
  author_url: http://blogs.salon.com/0003153/
  date: 2004-06-16 11:02:31
  date_gmt: 2015-04-25 04:22:32
  content: "My ears perked up at the thought of a a hit-and-run.  I was hoping it was in our little bedroom community so I could help.  I know a guy . . .\n\nSeriously, I'm glad it was easy.  There's never a convenient time to deal with cars.  \n\nI wrote about my hate/hate relationship with cars yesterday.  Now that's a coincidence.  I'm glad I didn't write about an accident of mine, or the son's.  He's still dealing with his similar fender-bender.\n"
---
<p>
    One of the excitements this weekend was my minor
    automobile accident. No one injured except the car.
</p>
<p>
    I was picking up my son from
    <a href="http://www.metroyouthsymphony.org">rehearsal</a>
    at a local
    school.
    There are several orchestras coming and going and
    little league
    happening,
    so the little elementary school parking lot is packed
    and the narrow, neighborhood streets are full of cars.
</p>
<p>
    Well, I was stopped in the street turning left into the
    school parking lot and a car was trying to come out
    of the parking lot and turn into the street.
    The had to swing wide because of cars parked on the
    street and,
    sscccrrrraaaaappppeeeee,
    their front driver-side bumper scraped across my car
    from the the drivers door to the rear panel.
    From the reaction of the other driver, they knew
    what had happened.
    Then, I looked into the rear view mirror to watch
    them drive away without stopping.
    "They must be going around the block", I thought noticing
    all the traffic and difficulty in getting around with
    all the congestion.
    But they didn't return.
</p>
<p>
    A phone call to the
    Portland police
    non-emergency phone number meant leaving a message
    and my cell phone number on their recording machine
    (sigh, big city police).
    The car was very drivable so I drove my son home
    and phoned my insurance company.
    They took the particulars and even scheduled me for
    a drive-through estimation in 15 minutes here in
    my neighborhood.
    All is good -- Safeco came through for me.
</p>
<p>
    Later that afternoon, the
    Portland police
    phoned back to ask for the details of the accident.
    While talking to
    Officer Shaw,
    she said "I just got the message that someone is phoning
    in with what could be the other half of the accident.
    Could I put you on hold?".
</p>
<p>
    Well, sure.
</p>
<p>
    It turns out that a new teenage driver had arrived
    home and confessed to her accident.
    She "freaked out" and didn't stop.
    Now, the parents were phoning the police to report
    the accident.
    Officer Shaw helped us exchange phone numbers and
    insuance companies and,
    viola,
    it's not a hit-and-run any more.
</p>
<p>
    Now there's just  the hassle of getting the side
    panels repaired.
    That and the deductable.
    I'm hoping the insurance companies can work that out too.
</p>
